Fix libc_nonshared.a (#17702)
ziglang/zig: lib/libc/glibc/README.md

# Zig GNU C Library ("glibc") Support

*Date*: October, 2023

Zig supports building binaries that will dynamically link against the
[GNU C Library ("glibc")](https://www.gnu.org/software/libc/) when run.
This support extends across a range of glibc versions.

By default, Zig binaries will not depend on any external C library, but
they can be linked against one with the `-lc` option.  The compilation

> target defines which C library: `musl` is the statically linked

Author: Ah, I've simplified this description to avoid getting into the static/dynamic distinction here.

[musl C library](https://musl.libc.org/) or `gnu` which will be a
run-time, dynamic linking dependency on glibc.

A specific C library version can be chosen with an appropriate `-target`.
For example, `-target native-native-gnu.2.19` will use the default CPU and
OS targets, but will link in a run-time dependency on glibc v2.19 (or

> later).  Use `zig env` to show the default targets and versions.

Author: Done

Glibc symbols are defined in the `std.c.` namespace in Zig, though the
`std.os.` namespace is generally what should be used to access C-library
APIs in Zig code (it is defined depending on the linked C library).

> See `src/glibc.zig` for how Zig will build the glibc components.  The core
> C library is sufficient only for compile-time linking (it is a stub
> library that just needs to indicate that a given symbol will be present at
> run-time, it doesn't actually have to implement said symbol).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See `src/glibc.zig` for how Zig will build the glibc components.  The generated
shared object files are sufficient only for compile-time linking. They are stub
libraries that only indicate which symbols will be present at
run-time, along with their type and size. The symbols do not contain any actual implementations.
```

Author: Merged this suggestion manually.

## Targets

The GNU C Library supports a very wide set of platforms and architectures.

> The current Zig support for glibc only supports Linux.  Extend
> `src/glibc.zig` to support additional platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current Zig support for glibc only supports Linux.
```

Author: Done.

Zig supports glibc versions back to v2.17 (2012) as the Zig standard
library depends on symbols that were introduced in 2.17.

## Glibc stubs

The file `lib/libc/glibc/abilist` is a Zig-specific binary blob that
defines the supported glibc versions and the set of symbols each version
must define.  See https://github.com/ziglang/glibc-abi-tool for the
tooling to generate this blob.  The code in `glibc.zig` parses the abilist
to build version-specific stub libraries on demand.

The generated stub library is used for compile-time linking, with the
expectation that at run-time the real glibc library will provide the
actual symbol implementations.

### Public Headers

The glibc headers are in `lib/libc/include/generic-glibc/`.  These are
customized and have a couple Zig-specific `#ifdef`s to make the single set
of headers represent any of the supported glibc versions.  There are
currently a handful of patches to these headers to represent new features
(e.g. `reallocarray`) or changes in implementation (e.g., the `stat()`
family of functions).

> 

Reviewer: mention the https://github.com/ziglang/universal-headers/ project. I am likely going to merge https://github.com/ziglang/universal-headers/pull/7 shortly.

edit: you have a mention below that should be moved up here

Author: Moved universal-headers reference up here.

## Glibc static C-Runtime object files and libraries

Linking against glibc also implies linking against several, generally
"invisible" glibc C Runtime libraries: `crti.o`, `crtn.o`, `Scrt1.o` and
`libc_nonshared.a`.  These objects are linked into generated Zig binaries
and are not run-time linking dependencies.  Generally they provide
bootstrapping, initialization, and mapping of un-versioned public APIs to
glibc-private versioned APIs.

Like the public headers, these files contain a couple customiziations for
Zig to be able to build for any supported glibc version.  E.g., for glibc
versions before v2.32, `libc_nonshared.a` contained stubs that directed
the `fstat()` call to a versioned `__fxstat()` call.

These files used for these objects are in `lib/libc/glibc`.  See the
`tools/update_glibc.zig` tool for updating content in here from the
upstream glibc.

# More Information

See

> https://github.com/jacobly0/zig/commit/2314051acaad37dd5630dd7eca08571d620d6496

Reviewer: don't link to a third party git repo. I'm pretty sure this commit is in zig's tree as well.

Author: Good eye, not sure how I got this thirdparty URL.  Replaced with the real PR.
